# Benchmark problem version 0.1

## NOTE: For arbitrary numbers of objectives problem implementation, please go to  [arbitrary numbers of objective branch](https://github.com/dsakurai/benchmark-visualizer/tree/l-liu/n_objectives).

The following assumes that you are in the directory project.

## Install the environment

1. Create python virtual environments:

- ```python -m venv venv```

2. Active environments

- On Windows ``.\venv\Scripts\activate ``
- On Linux/MacOS ``source venv/bin/activate``

3. Install requirements

- ``pip install -r requirements.txt``

4. (Optional) You may need to install jupyter notebook in order to use jupyter notebook

- ``pip install jupyter``

## Run with CLI

1. With the activated environment and sample tree file ("sample.json"). If you do not wish to track
   the experiment with mlflow, append ``--disable_tracking`` flag as parameter to the command below:

- ``python cli_main.py -f sample.json --dim 2``

## Run with jupyter notebook

1. With the activated environment, start a jupyter notebook server:

- ``jupyter notebook``

2. In the opened browser window, find the file ``sample_experiment.ipynb`` and open it.
   ***If the browser did not open automatically, click or copy&paste the link displayed in the console***
3. Follow the instructions in the notebook.

# Visualizer version 0.1

This visualizer was built with vue.js and FastAPI. You can either run the application with detached front-end and back end,
or to build the front-end and serve with FastAPI. If the development/experiment server is your current computer, no change
is needed. If it is a remote server, change the proxy in ``front-end/vue.config.js`` to your server's address.

## Frontend configuration


### Build the front-end

1. Install node.js.

2. Go to the front-ends directory and install dependencies via:
- ``yarn install``

(Make sure core pack is enabled, for more see: https://)

3. Build the front-end:
- ``yarn build``
4.Your front end should appear in ``front-end/dist``

### Run stand alone front-end application

1. Install node.js
2. Run the application using:
``npm run``

## Backend configuration
The backend can run with one simple command: ``uvicorn main:app --reload``
(To make sure you are in the right directory, it's better to set ``PYTHPNPATH`` variable by: ``export PYTHONPATH=.``)


1. Backend requires specification on the experiment result file directory to run.
By default, it will search for data in the current directory. To change this, run the startup command with positional argument.
For instance, if the experiment data is in ``data`` directory, run the backend with:
``uvicorn main:app data --reload``

2. By default, the backend only runs on localhost, to expose it on the network, use ``--host`` flag (not recommended).
It is highly recommended to use a reverse proxy application for deployment such as Apache2 or Nginx.

Jupyter Demo
------------

Use VSCode and its Dev Container feature to run this project. It will automatically set up the virtual environment that can be picked up by VSCode Python and Jupyter extensions.

If the execution of the notebook fails, this often means that the shared libraries were not picked up by the virtual environment.
Necessary flags are found in the file named `.env`, which is autogenerated when the Dev Container is first executed (through its postCreation hook).
Make sure that this file is generated. You can also manually generate it from the root directory:
```
$ ./nix-scripts/nix-develop
```

Finally, refresh the environment variables in the virtual environment loaded by Python / Jupyter extensions.
Sometimes, this is not necessary. Sometimes, you just have to open a Jupyter notebook and select the proper venv.
In any case, you can reload the VSCode window intead: open the command palette (Ctrl+Shift+P) and select "Reload Window".

Security
--------

This system cannot be used by multiple users if security is a concern. This is because that the Jupyter server is set up in such a way that it will be automatically logged in as the default podman user. In other words, there is no proper user management on Jupyter's side.